My name is Xavier Legro and
I'm the Mac OS X evangelist.
I work in developer relations
and I'd like to welcome you
all today to session 409,
the new HITooLbox.
Last year, if you remember correctly,
not in the same room, but you know,
it's a bit more south,
we introduced HIView,
which is a new drawing
compositing model for like,
you know, drawing controls on Mac OS X.
We got a lot of feedback from you guys
and we're very happy to present you
what we've been doing in the last year.
You have to understand that if you're
doing Carbon development and if you're
a C/C++ developer on our platform,
this technology is very,
very important for you.
And at one point or other
of your development cycle,
you have to look at what we're
doing with HIView and what we're
doing with the new HITooLbox.
Because this is really the future of
C and C++ development on Mac OS X.
We have a session full of new
things and very cool demos.
And in order to talk about that,
we're going to go
directly into the content.
I'd like to introduce Guy Fullerton,
who is known as well as Guy,
who's going to be actually talking
about the brand new HIToolbox
that we have for you guys.
Guy.
Thank you.
Thank you Xavier.
Get him back.
Call him Xavier.
So you have to forgive me a little bit.
I've been told that there's a Krispy
Kreme donut waiting for me back there
after I finish the presentation,
so I might go a little quickly here.
I really, really like donuts.
Can we get the front monitors on so I can
see the slides without turning around?
If not, I'll just stand back here
and I can see this screen.
So I'm sure some of you
are sitting here wondering,
new HIToolbox, why'd they call this
session the New HIToolbox?
I mean, it's not like the
Control Manager APIs have
changed fundamentally since 1984.
You can still call many manager
routines the same way you've
always been able to call them.
And the contents of MacWindows.h
is almost the same as it
has been back in 1984.
So why are we calling the
session the new HI Toolbox?
Well, the reason is that over
the past couple years,
we've completely rewritten
the foundations of HIToolbox.
In Jaguar, we introduced HIObject,
which is our standard
toolbox object model.
And every object model, of course,
needs some kind of messaging model,
and Carbon Events is
that messaging model.
And Carbon Events have been
around even longer than HIObject.
And of course, if you've got objects,
you need base handlers
and base functionality.
And of course,
we have that in the form of the
standard window handler and the base
handlers for controls and applications
and menus and things like that.
And so with this foundation in place,
what we were able to do is completely
rewrite the control manager so that
the control system is now HIView.
And HIViews are now a full-featured
view system that supports a one-pass
efficient composited drawing model.
So in short,
the reason we call this the new
HIToolbox is because it's built
on a completely modern foundation.
Now, there's a famous saying,
to stand still is to regress.
And what this means to us on
the toolbox is that the world
moves kind of fast around us.
There's a lot of other things going on.
And if we don't at least keep up,
and if not move faster
than the rest of everybody,
we're falling behind.
And so that's actually the reason why
we rewrote the foundations of HIToolbox.
Because now that we have this
modern foundation in place,
we can innovate much more quickly
than we were able to before.
And that's fine for us.
Let's put new features out there.
But you might be wondering,
why do we care?
An application that was written
back in 1984 that underwent the
PowerPC transition and then ported
to Carbon still runs about the
same on Mac OS X as it did in 1984.
Sure,
it's got a new user interface and stuff,
but your code can just work
the same if you want it to.
So what does it really matter
if we have a new HIToolbox?
Well,
the reason is that the new foundation
forms the basis of all of our new
functionality from here on out.
We have things like the toolbar,
which were introduced in Jaguar.
And you can't really use the
toolbar unless you understand
how HIobject and HIView works.
And in fact, you can't even customize
the toolbar unless you know
how to make a custom HIView.
Similarly,
if you want to put sheets in your
application to be truly Aqua-compliant,
you need to understand
how Carbon events work.
So you really need to understand
how this foundation works,
and you need to start adopting
this as soon as you can,
so you can bring your
applications forward.
Another real benefit of this new
foundation is it offers much,
much better performance.
Compositing view systems
are an awful lot faster,
more efficient,
and even more predictable than
the old-school sorts of view
systems that we had on Mac OS.
But the best point is that sticking
with HIToolbox is a very easy,
iterative adoption path that
allows you to keep using the same,
often cross-platform, C and C+ code that
you're already used to.
So in short,
the new HIToolbox is what allows
you to take your applications
to the next level on Mac OS X.
So with this new foundation in place,
we actually did tons more stuff
for Panther and HIToolbox than
we were able to for Jaguar
for previous system releases.
And I'm going to talk about
an awful lot of stuff.
So the real reason I'm going
to talk fast is I've got to get
all this stuff fit into an hour.
It wouldn't surprise me if
we go a little bit over.
But before I start going
into the new features,
I want to talk about something else.
When we were implementing Panther,
one of our mantras was performance.
We really had to look hard at ways
we could make the toolbox faster.
Performance is the main goal of Panther,
you know,
it was talked about in other sessions.
So we took a good hard look at a
number of different facets of the
toolbox and did some intelligent
things to make it as fast and perform
as efficiently as it possibly could.
For instance, you know, we send a lot of
Carbon events on the system,
but if you sample your application,
you're not going to see a lot of
time spent in Carbon event routines,
right?
The bulk of the time
is spent in your app.
But still, we know the number of
Carbon events we're sending out.
We know that over the course
of a run of an application,
there's going to be thousands
and thousands of Carbon events
getting sent to various objects
all over your application.
So we need to make sure Carbon events
are as lightweight as possible.
So we rethought some of the algorithms,
rethought some of the data structures,
and we put some speed boosts in there,
the best of which is that event
construction is now twice as fast
on Panther as it was on Jaguar.
Now, we took a similar look at HIVU in
the compositing view system.
We found some ways we
could do invalidation of
views a little bit better.
We found ways of
speeding other things up,
like doing our vis region calculations in
a deferred manner and things like that.
And the net result is that now
live resize for a fairly typical
compositing window that probably has
a toolbar and a couple complex views,
that's now about 30 to 40 percent
faster on Panther than it was on Jaguar.
And it doesn't just affect
compositing windows.
See, you can see that the window
frame is still being drawn,
and the title bar is still being drawn.
So even though your windows
may not yet be compositing,
we still draw the window frame
and the title bar widgets and
all that with compositing.
So these performance improvements we
did just at the compositing path even
helps your non-compositing windows.
Now, it's hard to say exactly how much it
helps out non-compositing windows,
because it depends greatly on
what exactly you draw and how
you draw on those windows.
But with our test apps,
we're seeing up to about a 10
percent performance improvement
in library size during,
for non-compositing windows.
And of course,
these same changes speed up just about
anything having to do with the number
of views that you have in your library.
So, for example, if you're drawing, say,
a 10 percent performance
improvement in a library,
you're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So we're going to have to
make a 10 percent performance
improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So, we're going to have to make a 10
percent performance improvement.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So,
we're going to have to make a 10 percent
performance improvement in a library.
So, we're going ways to enable
and disable your items,
but we still wanted to make that
experience faster for the user.
So we tweaked some menu
manager algorithms,
and now typical menu item manipulation
is about 30 to 40 percent faster
on Panther as it was on Jaguar.
And of course,
we've had a lot of feedback
about Data Browser,
and some of the complaints is
that it's slow in a few areas.
So we concentrated on certain algorithms
that people were complaining about,
and we made Data Browser Item Addition,
I think it was about 30
percent faster on Panther,
and Data Browser Item Removal
and Selection 10 times faster on
Panther than it was on Jaguar.
Well, I know you're not here to listen to
me pat myself on the back or anything,
so let's just jump into the features.
And I'd like to start
off with HITextView.
This got mentioned in other sessions,
but HITextView is a
A very full-featured compositing
text editing view based around MLTE,
the Multilingual Text Engine.
It's compositing mode only,
so this is another reason why
you need to start switching your
windows over to compositing mode,
so you can adopt a
cool feature like this.
The reason why we based it on
MLTE is because MLTE already
had a lot of functionality.
It already supports mixed style runs,
full Unicode support,
so it supports all the language
that Mac OS X supports.
It's got advanced typographic
features and things like that.
And it already integrates with certain
standard systems on the system,
like the edit and services menu.
And right now we're working
on support for the font panel.
It's not there in the WWDC seed,
but it will be there by the
time we ship Panther GM.
So MLTE already has this really rich API.
It can already do things
like insert text into it,
associate an MLTE instance with a file,
set up styles,
do complex manipulations and whatnot.
So that allowed us to make
the HITextView API very,
very small.
There's basically two
APIs in the HITextView API.
The first allows you
to create a textview.
The second allows you to get the
MLTE object out of that textview
so you can do manipulations on it.
So the intended usage model
is you create your view,
you get out the MLTE object,
and you call MLTE APIs on it.
But the main thing you need to
realize is that some MLTE APIs do
not work with these MLTE objects
that are bound to a view.
And the reason for that is
because the MLTE API is so huge,
and it predates HIView actually,
that it does some things that don't
make sense in the world of HIView.
For instance,
there's an MLTE API which allows you
to change the bounds of an MLTE object.
Well, we'd much prefer you use
the HIView APIs to change
the bounds of a given view.
So we actually disabled the
MLTE APIs that do those things
just for these MLTE objects
that are bound to HIViews.
So as you're perusing the
MLTE APIs and you see something,
you're going to want to make
sure there's not an HIView--an
equivalent HIView API instead.
And make sure to call that
HIView instead--HIVW API instead.
Now, another way that we leveraged
existing technology to make our
textview a lot quicker or to
implement our textview a lot quicker
was through the use of HIScrollView.
The scrollview was something
we implemented in Jaguar.
It's an HIView that can
manage the scrolling for any
arbitrary scrollable canvas.
It could be a picture, who knows what.
It could be a list.
It could be text.
And it already does a
whole bunch of work.
So it's a very, very good tool.
And it's a very good tool to work for us.
It manages the scrollbars.
It'll hide and show the scrollbars
appropriately according to the
AcroHuman interface guidelines.
It'll keep the canvas sized at
the right amount and all that.
And it's got a Carbon event protocol
that communicates with the canvas itself.
So we built the HITextView to understand
that protocol and to communicate via
that protocol with the scrollview.
So that all you need to
do is you take a textview,
you embed it in a scrollview,
and now you've got a scrollable textview.
So here's a very quick example
of hi-text-view creation.
It's pretty much exactly
what you would expect.
You create a text view by
calling hi-text-view create.
It's an hi-view creation API like
the ones we introduced in Jaguar,
so it'll look real familiar to you.
You can pass a frame to it.
In this particular example,
I did not need to pass a frame,
and I'll get to that in a second.
We support some option bits.
Right now, there are no option bits that
are specific to the hi-text-view,
but it just gives us
future expandability.
But more importantly is the fact
that you can pass MLTE option
bits into our creation function.
That's the TX and frame
options parameter.
So this TX and frame options parameter
allows you to configure the MLTE object
with certain creation data to turn
on certain behaviors and whatnot.
These are all in the normal MLTE headers.
But in this particular example,
we didn't need any options.
And after you call this routine,
of course, you get back your text view.
The next thing you need
to do is make it visible.
Because by default,
an hiview is created invisibly.
And then the next step is we just
take our text view and embed it in a
scroll view that we've already created.
And then our text view is just working.
Now, more likely than not,
you're going to actually
need to manipulate your text
view in some way via MLTE.
So here's a very brief
example of how to do that.
We've already got our text view created.
So we call hitextview get txn object
to extract the MLTE object from it.
And let's say we want to associate
that MLTE object with a file.
So it will display the contents
of the file and support revert
functionality and things like that.
So we build a URL to that file using,
you know, the normal APIs.
And then we call the textension
routine to associate that
file with the MLTE object.
And that's it.
Very, very straightforward.
Now, of course,
you can build it in code if you want,
but better yet,
you can go into IB and build it there,
because the IB,
the interface builder in Panther,
now supports a bunch of the new HIViews.
They implemented the ones
we introduced in Jaguar,
and they've implemented most of the
ones we've introduced in Panther.
And we're continuing to work with
them to make the Carbon experience
in interface builder a lot richer.
So, this is a good way to go as well.
So another new view that was talked about
at the earlier sessions is HISearchField.
Search fields are a big part of
the Aqua user interface on Panther.
They're really convenient for the
users and offer a lot of functionality.
And our HISearchField supports
all the standard behaviors.
You know, it's an editable text field,
it's got the rounded frame,
which indicates that it's a search field,
it's got an optional cancel button,
it's got an optional pop-up menu,
completely customizable menu,
and it has an optional descriptive label,
which is the little grayed-out text
you can see that's in the text field
right now that kind of indicates
what you're going to be searching.
So here's a very quick example
of how you might create one.
I'm going to assume you've
already created a menu ref.
And in fact,
I'm going to assume you already know how
to handle Carbon events on a menu ref,
because this is something you've been
able to do for the past couple of years.
It's very straightforward.
You build up a menu.
You put HI commands in it.
You put the K event command
process handler on the menu.
And then you can react to
commands as they get sent out.
So we'll assume that's already been done.
The next step is to just
create our search field.
Give it its bounding rectangle.
You can set up the attributes.
Right now,
the only attribute is whether or
not you want to cancel button.
In this case,
we do want the cancel button.
And you hand it your menu.
And you give it the descriptive
text you want displayed.
And you receive back the search field.
Now, we also offer APIs so that you
can set the attributes and the
menu and the descriptive text
on the fly later if you need to.
Now once you've set it up,
you're going to want to
handle events for two things.
You want to react to clicks
on the cancel widget.
And of course,
you're going to want to react to the text
as the user types it and hits return,
so you can actually do the search.
There's two Carbon events you need to
handle to deal with those two things.
The first is keventextaccepted.
And the second is
keventserchfieldcancelclicked.
You install a handler the way I'm sure
you guys already know how to install.
And the handler might
look something like this.
If you receive the text accepted event,
you get your search field.
You ask for the text
out of the search field.
You do your search,
and you update your interface the
way you would normally do that.
And if the cancel button's clicked,
you just undo that search.
You remove whatever filtering you did and
restore your list to its normal state.
So the next view I want to
talk about is the segment view,
or as it was called in other sessions,
I think, that switcher thingy.
But we prefer the segment view.
So I'm sure everybody's used
the segment view in the finder,
right?
It's a view switcher control.
It's like a group of radio buttons.
You can choose between icon, list,
and column view,
and each of those choices
is mutually exclusive.
So of course,
our segment view supports that.
But some other uses of segment view
have a more momentary behavior.
The best example are the back and
forward buttons that you see in
Safari and the back and forward buttons
you see in the new open and save panels.
That's essentially a segment view.
It's just got two segments,
but each of those two segments
is a push button that does
back and forward functionality.
So of course,
the segment view supports that.
The segment view also
supports sticky behavior.
You can think of that as a checkbox,
right?
You click it, it stays pressed until
you click it again,
at which point it pops back up.
Now the cool thing is that every segment
in a segment view is configurable.
You can set the number of segments,
and you can set each one up differently.
So you could have, for instance,
think of like a DVD player control.
You could have a play, pause, record,
fast forward, reverse,
each of those with a different
type of button behavior.
And of course,
you can customize each of the
button contents differently as well.
We support icon services, icon refs,
CG image refs,
which is sort of the preferred format,
and text, of course,
for those applications that
need text-based segment views.
Oh, the last point is that
unfortunately we did not get
the SegmentView APIs publicized
in time for the WWDC build,
but we are currently actually
using the implementation
inside the new nav services.
So it is there, it does exist,
it's fully functional,
it's just the API didn't look quite
the way we wanted to for the seed,
so we pulled it back.
But the API will definitely be in
place by the time Panther ships.
So we've got a lot of feedback
about Data Browser over the years.
It's actually had quite a long lifespan.
It's been around since before Mac OS X,
because it shipped in CarbonLib.
And so we wanted to implement some of
the feature requests you've asked for.
Now, in Jaguar, our big push was for HIV.
You know, we wanted everybody to
get out there and use HIV.
And it's this really exciting,
cool functionality.
So I'm sure everybody raced out,
tried it,
and then hit a brick wall and went, oh,
data browser doesn't support it.
I guess I can't use it.
I guess I can't use compositing mode.
And yeah, that's true.
It is unfortunate.
And so that's one of
the things we really,
really wanted to fix for Panther.
So I'm happy to say that now
it works in compositing mode.
It's pretty darn cool
in compositing mode.
It's actually a lot faster.
Because of the way compositing
modes and validation system works,
I have to redraw a lot less in data
browser when things happen to it than
I had to in non-compositing mode.
In fact,
just normal data browser API usage
got a little bit faster because
there were some data browser
APIs that would immediately redraw.
And so if you did sort of a
multi-state change on the data browser,
you might get three or four redraws.
Whereas now in compositing mode,
those four state changes will
only be accompanied by one redraw.
But data browser is a really huge API.
I got it working in my test tools.
We got it working enough for the new
nav services and finder in a few places.
But I know we didn't
quite cover all the bases.
So I need your feedback.
So those of you who hit the brick wall
for adopting compositing in Jaguar,
please go try it out.
Go let us know if you see any
problems in compositing mode with
various data types and whatnot.
I'd like to have this thing
rock solid for Panther,
but I need your help to do it.
So write up any bugs you see.
So the other thing we added for--
one thing we added for Jaguar,
actually,
was type selection in column view.
And we could actually do type selection
for free in column view because there's
only one column that's focused at a time,
if you will.
In ListView, however,
if you've got multiple columns,
the data browser doesn't know which
column to apply the type selecting to.
In Finder,
it would need to be the name column,
but we could make that guess.
We could find the first
column that does text,
but it's a little fishy.
It might not work for every application.
So what we decided to do was
make it an adoption path thing,
which actually gives us a benefit
in a second that I'll talk about.
When you set up your
columns for ListView,
you can specify a new property,
this KDataBrowser ListView type
select column property,
which is in control definitions dot H,
associate that with one of your columns,
and that's the column we'll
apply type selection to.
Now, the benefit we got, actually,
for making this an
adoption path thing is--.
Yeah.
It prevented us from breaking
your existing applications.
We know there are some applications
out there that filter the incoming
text before it hits the data browser.
And you could filter it at
sort of the wait next event
level because up until now,
data browser wasn't
particularly Carbon event savvy.
And so, you know,
you could get away with taking
an event out of wait next event,
filtering it,
and then calling data browser
with only those key presses you
wanted to give to data browser.
Well, when type selection is turned on,
in order to do proper Unicode
matching with the contents
of the type select column,
we need to handle our text input via
the KEVENT_TEXT_INPUT_CARBON_EVENTS.
So that is a difference.
When you turn on type select,
text input will be grabbed by
Data Browser in a different way.
So if you need to do filtering,
make sure you filter using the
KEVENT_TEXT_INPUT_CARBON_EVENTS or
some other similar mechanism.
In fact,
there are some new events put out by
the Text Services Manager that make
text filtering in general a lot easier.
So take a look at carbon-events.h
for that kind of stuff.
So the Appearance Manager was
introduced in Mac OS 8.
I'm sure most of you
are familiar with it.
I'm sure some of you have even used it.
And it worked great on Mac OS 8.
It was really fast.
But on Mac OS X,
it didn't perform particularly well.
And the reason for that is
that the Appearance Manager was
entirely Quick Draw based.
It assumed it was drawing
into the current port.
That's basically the main
Quick Draw basis that it had.
Now, Mac OS X is very Quartz-based.
We want to use core
graphics all over the place.
And in fact,
the internals of the Appearance
Manager on Mac OS X draw in Quartz.
So we had this weird sandwich effect
going on in the Appearance Manager where,
OK, somebody would call
the Appearance Manager,
they would have set up
their port properly.
But before we call our internal stuff,
we needed to convert the port
information to CG context and make
sure to synchronize the clip of the
CG context with the Quick Draw clip,
and that was just horrifically expensive.
Now, sometimes,
after we were done doing our drawing,
we needed to call your code back to
do label drawing and stuff like that.
And that is yet another sort of
mode switch where we had to shore
up the data structures and make
sure everything was right in the
Quick Draw world to match the way we'd
set it up in the core graphics world.
So you had the sandwich of Quick Draw,
core graphics in the middle,
and Quick Draw on the other side.
And that just slowed everything down.
So what we did is we took
just that center portion,
just that Quartz portion,
and we exported it as
HI-themed drawing primitives.
Now, of course, this is going to give you
massive performance increases.
In general,
we see about a two-time speed boost for
an HITHeme API on Panther compared to
the equivalent appearance API on Jaguar.
So if you can adopt this stuff
conditionally in your code for Panther,
you're going to see really big
speed benefits for those of you who
are using the Appearance Manager.
Now, the best thing is that the
HITHeme APIs will look really,
really familiar.
It's virtually an identical usage model,
so it should be
extraordinarily easy to adopt.
And the number one request
for the Appearance Manager is,
"Give us a way to draw
pulsing push buttons,
please!" So you can do that
through the HITHeme APIs now.
Now, another reason HITHeme is so
important is because this is the
API set that will allow you to
draw all the new Aqua widgets,
right?
You need to use HITHeme if you want
to draw that new tab look and the
segment views and things like that.
So, you need to get familiar with this
and understand how to use it if you
need your own drawing primitives.
And lastly, the HITHeme APIs actually lay
the foundation for the toolbox
and its ability to print.
Well, it doesn't print quite yet,
but this lays enough groundwork
so that we can actually print.
Whereas the Appearance
Manager APIs simply cannot print by
virtue of the way we have to manufacture
a context to match the QuickDrop port.
So like I said, it's a very,
very familiar usage model,
but there are some differences.
First, obviously,
is that the HITHeme APIs are
completely Quartz-savvy.
So, no longer will you be able to assume,
"Oh, I can set up the current port with a
background color and the appearance
manager is going to erase to it." No,
you have to do your erase beforehand
if that's something you need to do,
and then call the HITHeme API.
And in fact,
the HITHeme API requires that you
pass in a core graphics context.
So you manufacture one of these core
graphics contexts and you can call
multiple HITHeme APIs as you need to.
The second major difference is
the fact that the HITHeme APIs use
HIPoint and HIREctangle parameters.
And there's two reasons for this.
The first is that since HITHeme
is entirely core graphics based,
and since core graphics has a floating
point based coordinate system,
quick draw coordinates,
the old quick draw coordinates,
which were not floating point,
don't really work well
in the context of CG.
They don't allow maximum flexibility.
And so that made it natural
to use HIPoint and HIREct.
The second reason is that the HITHeme
APIs were literally designed so that
we could implement our system HIViews
like the push button and whatnot.
And since they are HIViews,
they also use HIPoint and
HIREctangle parameters.
So it was just a perfectly natural fit.
Now, you guys are all used to drawing
with a top left-hand origin.
I think that's more comfortable.
I'm sure all of you do, too.
So, of course,
the HITHeme APIs support that model.
But if you're doing more
PDF-compatible drawing,
or if you're trying to do
some theme-primitive drawing
from a Cocoa application,
HITHeme supports a bottom
left origin as well,
so you can use it from
just about anywhere.
So we introduced HIView in Jaguar,
and it has a lot of
cool new functionality,
but we wanted to add something
really key to it in Panther,
and so we've got something
that's kind of exciting,
and it's called HIViewLayout.
But rather than explain it,
I want to give you a brief demo,
because I think that'll do a better
job showing you what it's all about.
So if we could go to the demo machine.
I'm being told I need to talk faster.
Something tells me that's not the case.
Okay, so this is Rebounder.
This is our test tool
for the HIV layout stuff,
but it's also,
we're also going to sort of
polish it up and put it out
as sample code after the show,
but it needs a little bit of work.
I mean, for one,
we're stretching a push button well
beyond the bounds of good taste.
Anyway,
so this is basically just a normal
window with a push button in it.
You can click and track on it,
but we've put some Carbon event
handlers on the push button so that
we can put it into sort of edit mode,
right?
You can see these little
handles get associated with it.
And, you know,
I can rearrange the push button.
We've showed demos like this before.
But that's not the point
of this application.
The point of this application
is it lets us test out all
of the HIV view layout stuff.
Now, layouts, simply speaking,
are just a way to make a view resize
or move when a window resizes.
You can think of it that way.
So for instance, I've got this view A.
I can set up a binding,
which is the first type
of layout that we support.
And I can associate that view with
the right hand side of the window.
And when I grow the window,
the view stays in place
just like you'd expect.
And you're not limited to just one edge,
of course.
I can bind it to the
bottom of the window.
Let's say it's like an OK button.
You know, and it's going to stay
in the right place.
It's all automatic.
I just set up some data structures,
call an API, and the toolbox will
take care of the rest.
Now another cool thing is that you can
do sort of arbitrary relationships.
I've associated this
view A with its parent,
the window, but you're not limited to
just parent relationships.
I can create another view, view B.
Let's move it down here next to
view A because I like it there.
Let's make it a little bit smaller
so I'm at least somewhat close to
the Aqua Human Interface guidelines.
And I'm going to bind that view,
I'm going to bind its right
edge to the left edge of view A.
And now when I resize the window,
you get this sort of cascade
of automatic repositioning.
Now, of course, I can bind view B to
view A's top as well.
And so now you've got a really easy
way to keep your OK and cancel buttons
down in the bottom of the window.
OK.
So-- but bindings are just
one of the layouts we support,
one of the types of
relationships we support.
Another thing we support is positioning.
And you can think of positioning
sort of as alignments.
And it's an alternative
way to do something we've
already done in this demo.
So I'm going to go ahead and position
A horizontally such that it is
now right aligned with the window.
So it immediately snaps over there.
And it's going to stay over there,
just like you'd expect.
But positionings also support offsets.
So I think the AquaHuman interface
guidelines say that the right offset
from the edge of the window is 13 pixels.
So let me apply an offset to
the positioning I've set up.
And it'll stay 13 pixels
from the edge of the window.
Of course,
I can do the same thing to the bottom.
But before I do that,
let me actually turn off the bindings.
Do the same thing,
position that 13 pixels up
from the bottom of the window.
And A is going to stay
in the right place,
just the way we want.
And B is still moving as well,
because it's still bound to A,
A's movement.
But one other cool aspect is that
the relationships are one way.
So I can actually move B someplace else,
and it'll still maintain
B's relative offset from A.
So it's kind of powerful in that way.
You can move your views
around and change the layouts,
and things still behave
the way you'd expect.
Okay, so another cool thing you can do
with positionings is centering.
Let me clear the offsets.
And I can center A.
So A is going to stay in the center.
Of course, B is still bound to it.
B is going to stay right
where we want him to be.
And if I clear the centering,
I can show you the third
type of layout we support,
and that's scaling.
I can say, all right,
let's say for some strange reason
I always want view A to be 50%
of the width of the window.
I can set that up.
And let's say for some other
strange reason I want it to be
25% the height of the window.
That works as well.
So now whenever the window's
height changes and width changes,
A's size changes along with it.
Now probably the coolest part
about layouts is you can mix
and match them and combine them.
So I'm going to leave A's bindings
all set up so that he's staying
a proportion of the window size.
But now I'm also going to say, all right,
center him too.
And both of those bindings are respected.
So this is really, really powerful.
We switched the new navigation
services over to using this stuff,
got rid of a ton of code in nav,
and it not only library sizes faster,
but it just makes the code
so much easier to maintain.
So if we can go back to the slides now,
that'd be great.
So, obviously layouts are cool,
but there's some other technical
reasons why you might want to use these.
It's a very rich descriptive language
for associating views together.
For one, you can do peer
relationships like I showed,
A to B.
You can do parent relationships,
A to the window.
But you can even do strange
relative relationships.
You could do A to its second
cousin if you wanted to.
We took advantage of this in
Navigation Services as well,
and it made some of the relay out of the
dialogue that we needed to do to support
various optional pop-ups and whatnot.
It made that super simple.
The other main benefit is that if
you let us do the layout for you,
not only do you have less
code you need to maintain,
but we can make sure that our layout
code is as efficient as possible,
so you don't have to
spend time optimizing it,
and we can also make sure we
do it at the most optimal time,
so that we invalidate as
little as possible and cause as
little of a redraw as possible.
This is about all I'm going to talk
about in terms of HIView layouts,
but session 425 is going to go
into quite a bit more detail.
So go check that one out.
So the Aqua Human Interface
Guidelines give sort of the desired
look for simple about boxes.
And yeah, it's really simple,
but we figured, well,
if we can do that for you, why not?
So we added the HIAboutBox API to
the toolbox for Panther to
do simple about boxes.
And of course,
it's going to support everything
you're looking for in one
of these simple about boxes.
It gives you the right look.
It's going to display your
application's name and version
and copyright information.
And it does that by looking
at your application's bundle,
which probably already
has that information.
So we'll just fetch it from there
and display it appropriately.
But if you want to customize it,
there's two different
ways you can customize it.
You can either give us a
CFDictionary full of strings
with well-known keys and say,
"Please use this string for the name.
Please use this string for
the version," and whatnot.
And that might actually be
useful for plug-ins that want
to display in an about box,
right?
You wouldn't want the plug-in
to display in an about box
that points at the apps bundle.
So you'd supply your own strings.
Alternatively to supplying a dictionary,
you can point the HIAboutBox API at
a strings file and we'll pull
the strings out of there.
So it makes it easier
to localize and whatnot.
Now, if you use runApplicationEventLoop
to drive your event loop,
the About box will display automatically
whenever the default application object
receives the HICommandAbout command.
So all you need to do to get one
of these wired into your apps
is just associate that command
ID with your About menu item.
It will put it up automatically.
But if you need to display it manually,
like in the case of a plug-in perhaps,
or for a WaitNext event-based
application,
you can call the HIAboutbox
command directly if you need to.
Now,
the About box is a mode list window in
the document layer of your application.
And so, you know,
the user's going to expect
to click between it,
so you need to be prepared
to deal with that.
You need to be sort of
prepared for this other window,
a window you may not have created
to be in your document list.
And the other thing the user's going
to need to be able to do is close it.
Well, the About box already handles a
bunch of Carbon events on itself.
It's standard handler-based,
so it's going to automatically close
if the user clicks on the Close box.
But the user's, of course,
going to want to close it by choosing the
appropriate command from the File menu.
And the easiest way to do that
is to put the HICommandClose
command ID in your Close window,
command in your File menu.
Did I say command enough?
I think so.
Anyway, you get the point.
toolbar was another technology we
added in jaguar and uh... found the
need to add a few things to that
as well uh... the toolbar is set
up such that it can automatically
save its configuration to your
preferences and that's really powerful,
it means you have to write less code
and uh... the user gets the desired
experience uh... but there was a small
hole in that plan uh... having to do
with custom toolbar items there are some
custom toolbar items you may have added
to your toolbar and those items may
have had their own internal state there
may be times when that internal state
changes uh... without the user doing
something explicit and if that happened
there was no way for your toolbar item
to communicate back to the toolbar and
say hey i'm i'm dirty now you need to
save me at the next possible chance so it
was possible that our automatic saving of
configuration data would kinda would lose
some configuration every now and again
so we added an API to deal with that
which is HIToolbarItemConfigDataChanged
anytime your internal state changes
in a custom item just call this
the toolbar will automatically save
your configuration configuration.
A lot of people that use toolbars
build them up programmatically.
Not everybody can use our
sort of automatic regeneration
from pref technique.
But what we found--and in fact,
Finder was one of those clients.
They built it up manually from
their own preferences store.
And what we found is it's actually quite
slow because the previous APIs only
allowed you to programmatically add
toolbar items to a toolbar one at a time.
And every time you add a
toolbar item to a toolbar,
there's a bunch of Carbon events
that get sent out so that all the
toolbar views in the various windows
that use that toolbar know to update.
And then each of those
toolbar views says,
"Oh, I've got a new view in me.
I think I need to relay stuff out,
you know,
shift stuff around." So that's a lot
of work for every single toolbar item.
You multiply that times n items and
things start slowing down a lot.
So we added the
HIToolbarSetItemsWithIdentifiers
API to allow you to add a whole batch
of toolbar items at once to a toolbar.
So if you are doing this custom
toolbar creation programmatically,
make sure to conditionally
use this API on panels.
So you can see that it's going
to speed up your creation,
possibly dramatically,
depending on how many
toolbar items are in it.
So I'm running out of good segues,
so I'm just going to say let's talk
about the Carbon Event Manager.
We added a few APIs.
The first is kind of an
edge case usage thing.
HIMouseTrackingGetParameters is
an API that allows you to ask us
how we do our sticky menu tracking
in sort of an abstract way.
There's some applications out
there that want to replicate
our sticky menu tracking.
You know,
perhaps you're doing something menu-like,
or you're doing your own
custom menu implementation,
something,
and you need to behave the same.
This API allows you to make sure
you're behaving the same with
respect to all the things the
user's configured on the system
and all of that user's preferences.
The next API we added is CopyEventAs.
In the Carbon Event Manager, we
We transform events as they
cascade through the system.
A raw mouse down becomes
a window content click.
A window content click might
spawn a K-event control click.
The control click will
spawn a control track,
and so on and so on and so on.
And our model generally dictates that
an event spawned from another event
should have pretty much all the same
parameters as the event that spawned it.
And if you're trying to
replicate that in your own code,
or if you're trying to do some,
trigger some functionality in the
standard window handlers and you want to
make sure you're passing the right kind
of event to the standard window handler,
the copyEventAs function
you might find useful.
It allows you to take any given event
of a certain class and kind and create
another event of a different class and
kind while still maintaining all the same
parameters that the original event had.
Now,
another API we added fills a hole and
fixes a performance bug at the same time.
You know,
we're pushing everybody to adopt
Carbon events as much as possible,
and we've pretty much got
all the bases covered,
but we found out that some people still
need to use Event Avail and Still Down in
their applications for various reasons.
We just didn't have a sort of
Carbon event savvy version of those.
And that's fine.
I mean, generally those two APIs give
you the information you need,
but the real problem was that they
were kind of performance hogs.
Not only does Event Avail tell
you whether or not one of these
types of events is available,
but it also calls the run loop,
which might fire timers,
and it may also flush your
windows that are dirty,
which means that any given call
to Event Avail may take a lot
more time than you want it to,
considering most people use
Event Avail in a fairly tight loop.
So, what we did is we implemented
AcquireFirstMatchingEventInQueue,
which is kind of like a
Carbon Event Savvy version of EventAvail,
without all the horrendously
expensive stuff underneath it.
It just synchronizes our queue
with the Windows Server's
queue and tells you real quick,
"Hey, yeah, this event is in the queue.
Here it is.
Have fun." It does not do any
flushing or anything like that.
So you need to look at your code,
find all places where you're
using EventAvail and still down,
and see if you can switch over to
AcquireFirstMatchingEventInQueue
for Panther.
Additionally,
it'll make things an awful lot faster.
One sort of important thing to
note is that you can't do a direct
one-to-one replacement from still down
to AcquireFirstMatchingEventInQueue.
You're probably still going to
want to check button because,
you know, that's generally the semantics
used--that's generally the semantics
you desire when you use still down.
So we had some requests from
accessibility developers for a way to
look at other applications' events.
They, for whatever reason,
need to watch the key downs and
key ups and mouse ups and mouse
downs and other similar events as
they happen in other applications,
generally for accessibility purposes.
So we invented GetEventMonitorTarget,
which returns a Carbon Event event target
ref that you can put handlers on for
these sort of low-level user events.
And it only receives the low-level ones.
It's not like we're going
to give you kEvent1,
window activated events and whatnot.
It's just the low level layer.
So you can install handlers
for the events you want to
see in other applications.
And your handler in your
application will see those events.
The first important note is that
there are times when the system puts
itself in sort of a secure event mode.
Password fields are the best example,
right?
I mean, if the user is typing
in a password field,
you don't want other applications
to see those keyboard
input--see a keyboard input.
So we will not send you those events.
The other important thing to realize
is that Get Event Monitor Target can
slow the system down in general.
So you only want to use
it when you need to.
And those of you who need to
use it already know who you are.
This is not something for
general applications out there.
And the reason why it slows things
down is because normally as the
user types and clicks and stuff,
the Windows server just
sends events to one process.
Well, with Get Event Monitor Target,
if another application
installs handlers for key ups,
key downs, mouse ups, mouse downs,
the Windows server is
sending two copies out.
And not only are there two copies out,
but there are two copies
out of the entire system.
So you can see that the
system is slowing down.
And that's why you want to
use it when you need to.
And those of you who need to
use it already know who you are.
This is not something for
general applications out there.
And those of you who need to
use it already know who you are.
And that means your application that's
in the background normally being
quiet and not consuming any resources
is suddenly consuming resources,
taking away the user's ability
to use the program in the front.
So don't use this unless you need to.
It's very specialized.
Let's jump right into the Menu Manager.
The first Menu Manager API we
added is CancelMenuTracking.
It does just what you'd expect.
It cancels the menu tracking.
So if you have some kind of need
where you want to programmatically
stop the user from tracking
the menus-- I don't know,
maybe you want to put up an
alert or do some other UI-- you
can now do so programmatically.
And we also send out a pair
of Carbon events whenever the
menu bar is shown in hidden.
This would allow you to-- certain
pieces of your interface may want
to show or hide appropriately,
like your palettes and whatnot,
whenever the menu bar is shown in hidden.
So you just install handlers
for these pair of events on
the application event target,
listen to it,
modify your interface appropriately.
But probably the best feature
we added to the menu manager was
support for HIView-based menus.
Now, coming into Panther,
we'd already HIViewified
most of the system,
right?
HIViews are controls,
so that was already done.
The window manager got changed so
that now window frames and whatnot
are drawn with compositing views,
so that was all in place.
But the big missing piece
was the menu manager.
And the menu manager was kind of this
weird environment where you had a quick
draw port that didn't really point
to anything besides some buffer of
bits that the menu manager managed.
And on 9,
it would look those to the screen,
but on 10, you know,
we got some other functionality for free.
And MDEFs were confusing, I guess,
at best, and hard to do.
And therefore, you didn't see a whole
lot of custom menus.
Well,
HIView-based menus changes all that.
Makes menu customization super,
super easy.
But you just need to know a
few fundamental principles.
And for those of you who
understand HIView already,
this is going to be
really straightforward.
So if you've got HIVs,
you need compositing windows.
And that means every menu is now
drawn in a compositing window,
just like you'd expect.
It has the normal view hierarchy
of a compositing window.
There's sort of a structure
view and there's a content view.
But there's a few special
nuances of a menu view system
that you need to be aware of.
And the first is the notion
of the menu content view.
The menu content view lives inside
the window's normal content view.
And the menu content view's
responsibility is to draw
all of the menu items.
So of course, we have a standard menu
content view for our menus,
and that's what draws icon text,
command key, and whatnot.
Now the window's normal content view is
where the menu background gets drawn.
In the case of our standard one,
we draw those Aqua lines.
And if you're going to write
one of these custom menus,
you need to be able to find out--you
need to be able to go back and
forth between views and menus.
So we've got two APIs that
facilitate that functionality.
HIMenuGetContentView says, "All right,
given this menu ref,
give me the content view
that's going to render it."
And there's the inverse as well,
HIMenuViewGetMenu,
which is really useful for
inside your custom menu view,
right?
You need to know which menu to render
so you can ask for it with that API.
Now, there's not a lot of custom menus
out there because it's hard,
but let me give you a little advice
on why you might want to make a custom
menu and show you a couple examples.
Basically, you'd want to do a custom menu
to get functionality that isn't
already provided by our system menu.
That is, to get a menu that's not just,
you know, text command keys.
Good example of that would
be something like the finder.
In Panther,
the file menu now has a menu item
that allows you to change the
label of any given finder item.
And that's actually done by a
custom HIView that's inserted in
that menu implemented by finder.
Another example that was shown up
here in the center is something like,
we call an XY menu.
It would be great for like a color
sort of palette like we show there,
or maybe some kind of tool palette.
And lastly, some menus in our system
really aren't menus,
right?
If you look at the volume menu in
the right-hand side of your menu bar,
it's got a slider in it.
It's not much of a menu,
but it displays like one.
So, if you want to make a custom menu,
you to do some functionality like that,
you would do it with the custom menu.
Making one is very straightforward if
you already understand the architecture.
We introduced HIObject in Jaguar.
It's the object model.
You can derive from base classes,
and we provide the base menu content
view class as KHIMenuViewClassID.
So you derive from that
using the HIObject mechanism.
Now that you have your object class,
you can associate that view
class with any given menu,
and then when that menu draws,
it's going to display with
your--it'll actually create an
instance of your custom view,
and then draw with that custom view.
And since it's a normal HIView
in a normal compositing window,
you can embed other views inside
your custom view as you need to.
And after you've done that,
you just want to handle five fairly
straightforward Carbon events.
And in fact,
they're very familiar Carbon events
that we've already had on
the system for a year or so.
But the important thing to understand
is the protocol the menu manager
uses with respect to part codes.
So the control manager and HIView
often talk in terms of part codes,
right?
What part of a control was hit?
What part of a control is the mouse over?
But the menu manager always
talks in terms of menu items,
and it wants to know the
same pieces of information.
So the protocol with respect
to menu content views is that
part codes correspond directly
to the equivalent menu item.
If you receive an HIView event
that's asking for information
about part code five,
give it information about menu item five.
So the first event you want to
handle is KEventControlDraw.
And in fact,
you wouldn't necessarily even need to
handle this if all of your drawing was
done by just embedding other HIViews.
But the responsibility
for KEventControlDraw,
or for your content view
when it receives this event,
is to draw your menu items
really straightforward,
forward.
Draw them however you need to draw them.
But as the user's tracking
the mouse over a menu,
the menu manager wants one
of those items highlighted,
of course.
So you need to draw that highlighted.
The way you find out which item is
highlighted is by looking at the
focused part of your menu content view.
So you can call HIView getFocusedPart.
That'll tell you the menu item
that's currently highlighted.
So you draw that in the inverted manner,
or whatever is appropriate
for your custom menu.
Now, the second event you want to
handle is KEventControl hit test.
The menu manager will send this event
to your custom menu whenever it needs to
find out which item is under the mouse.
So all you need to do is look
at the coordinate in the event.
It's a view relative coordinate.
Figure out which menu item
that corresponds to and pass
that back in the Carbon event.
And similarly,
the KEventControl get part region
Carbon event will be sent whenever
the menu manager needs to know
the total area that that menu item
occupies visually in the menu.
So you look at the incoming part,
you build up a region that represents
the bounding rectangle for that item,
pass it back in the event.
The fourth event is
KEventControl Get Optimal Bounds.
The menu manager will send this
to you sort of early at menu time
when it needs to figure out how
big your menu would ideally be,
right?
This is assuming you've got
infinite screen real estate.
So if you've got an 8,000 item menu,
make sure you return a
really big rectangle.
But the--one thing to note is
that your menu may be sized
smaller to fit on a screen,
just like you'd expect,
so you need to be prepared
to deal with that.
And the way the menu
manager does scrolling,
most of it is actually
handled automatically for you.
But the way it scrolls you is by
offsetting your content view's
bounds origin appropriately.
So in your draw handler,
what you can do is look at your
bounds origin and constrain drawing
appropriately to cover only those
items that are visible on the screen,
which will speed up your menu a lot,
right, if you've got a lot of menu
items that aren't displayed.
There's no point in drawing those.
So there's one last
Carbon event you need to handle,
and that's to facilitate scrolling.
It's KEventScrollableGitInfo,
and we introduced that
in Jaguar as part of the
HI ScrollView Carbon Event Protocol,
but we're leveraging it here.
There's about, I think,
four or five pieces of data
that you need to provide in
this event to the menu manager.
Take a look in Carbonevents.h--actually,
no, I think that one's in HIView.h--to
see what those parameters are.
But they describe things like
how much of you is visible,
how much total of you there is,
how much you want to have scrolled
every time the user--or sort
of in every scroll increment,
right, that kind of information.
It's really straightforward.
And the rest of the functionality
is all going to be taken care of
for you by the base menu handling,
right?
So if you just implement
those five Carbon events,
you're going to have a
custom menu up and running.
But there's a few more events you might
want to handle for various other reasons,
if you need to do further customization
or change sort of the default behaviors.
So the first of those is
KEventMenuCreateFrameView.
This event is sent to your menu
content view when it needs--when the
menu manager wants to know what the
window frame view should look like.
This is the thing that actually
draws the menu background.
By default,
the base handler will create a
frame view that will draw the
normal Aqua line background.
But if you want a custom background,
like a picture or something,
you can handle this event and
create your own view and do
whatever drawing you need to.
The second event is
KEventMenuGitFrameBounds.
This event is sent to the ContentView to
determine where the total menu area
should be displayed globally on screen.
Generally, they're going to pop
down from the menu bar,
but you might have a
pop-up button or something,
and it needs to position appropriately
relative to the item that the caller
called pop-up menu select with.
So there's a whole bunch of
data that gets passed into the
GitFrameBounds Carbon event,
so you can decide or customize
how exactly you want it to
be positioned on screen.
Then finally,
does the K event menu become
scrollable Carbon event?
This Carbon event is sent to your
content view whenever your content
view is a candidate for scrolling.
And this will happen whenever
your content view represents
the sort of leaf-node menu,
right, of a series of menus,
because that's the one the
user can type select in.
So you'll receive this event and
you can either block the default
scrolling behavior if you don't
want any scrolling for some reason,
or you can do your own scrolling behavior
if you've got really unique needs.
You know,
maybe you need to scroll horizontally
through a menu or something,
who knows.
And so it comes with a lot
of info you can look at.
Generally,
you want to--when you receive this event,
you're going to want to install
a bunch of event handlers on the
menu's window so that you can
receive other input and whatnot.
And then when your menu is no
longer a candidate for scrolling,
we send the K event menu cease to
be scrollable Carbon event to you.
And that's where you tear down
all the handlers you set up
when you became scrollable.
So that's just sort of one
technique-- sort of the comprehensive
technique for creating a custom menu.
But it's certainly not
the only technique,
right?
If you've got a composited window,
you can do just about
anything with that thing.
There's all kinds of Carbon events
you can hook into to create views,
and you can use existing
views on the system,
and install Carbon event
handlers to handle user
interaction and all that stuff.
So there's lots of other techniques.
We've got a piece of
sample code out there.
It went on the website earlier this week,
so I suggest you go check that out.
It shows, I think,
about four different custom menus.
In fact, that was the app I used to take
the screenshots a few slides
back of those custom menus.
So it'll show you how to do all
three of those custom menus,
plus one additional one,
which puts a picture
as a menu background.
So it's really, really good sample code.
Let's jump right into the Window Manager.
So the first API we added
there is HIWindowChangeClass.
Now this is really cool because
it allows you to sort of
polymorphically change a window from,
say, document to floating and back.
So you can do some really
interesting UI there.
You can sort of promote
things to a floater,
you know,
change them around a little bit,
so that's really neat.
The next API we added is both sort of a
technology thing and a convenience thing.
Right now,
if you need to programmatically
flush a window to the screen,
the only way to do that
was with the QuickDraw API.
And if we're really
moving towards Quartz,
it doesn't make sense to keep
you guys using the QuickDraw
API to do the flushing.
So now HIWindowFlush allows you to
do a flush on just a window ref.
You can, you know, completely ignore the
implementation details of the
fact that there's a port there.
The other benefit is that flush time
now in the toolbox is more than just
painting the bits to the screen,
right?
We do other interesting
things in the context.
We have a compositing view system,
like right at flush time,
we look to see which of
your views are dirty,
and we tell them to repaint right now,
and then we can flush that to the screen.
And similarly,
window shadows often need to get
recalculated right at flush time.
So this HIWindowFlush API is this
one-stop shopping API to just say,
"Hey, blit this window the way it
needs to be blitted now."
With the advent of sheets,
more and more applications are adopting
them and probably the number one piece
of feedback we heard about sheets is
that you've got a document window,
an error happens, you put up a sheet.
That document window is still sort
of mode-less with respect to the
rest of the windows in your app
and you might get into a situation
where you need to display another
sheet on that same document window.
But the Aqua Human Interface
Guidelines say,
"No, you shouldn't do that."
And unfortunately,
there's no really good way to
find out if you've already got
a sheet on your document window.
So, HI Window is document modal target
is designed to solve that problem.
It tells you easily in just a
one-stop shopping API for whether or
not there's a sheet on your window.
We also have a detached
sheet window API which will
allow you to create a sheet,
display it and then recycle it
for display at a later time as
opposed to just disposing it and
then creating a new sheet later,
right?
So,
this will buy you a little bit in terms
of efficiency if you're constantly
reusing a particular type of sheet.
We also send out a couple new
Carbon events having to do with Windows.
You can think of this
as a Carbon event hook.
KEventAppActiveWindowChanged gets
sent out whenever the active window
in your application gets changed.
So if you need to maintain
state or update some UI based on
whatever the active window is,
you can just install a handler for
this event on the application target,
and you'll be notified
whenever that happens.
Now the window manager will
automatically take care of rearranging
windows on the screen whenever
the monitor configuration changes,
or whenever the dock moves from
the bottom over to the side.
So the window manager
will already do that,
and it sends events to your application.
I think they're KEventWindowConstraint
events to each window,
so each window can deal with it itself.
But if you need a global way to hook
into that and replace the window
manager's entire batch of functionality,
you can now install a handler for
KEventAppAvailableWindowBoundsChanged
on the application target,
and then completely replace the window
manager's functionality if you need to.
So we also enriched the
existing window transition API.
The coolest part now, as you can see,
is we now support a
genie transition effect.
So you can genie whatever you
need to whenever you need to.
It's not just for coming
in and out of the dock.
And it'll give you the
standard UI for it,
so you're going to match
the rest of the system.
Now,
we also came up with a new API called
Transition Window with Options.
It's going to look very familiar
because it's based off the
existing transition window API.
But some of the options it
allows you to customize,
it has to do with durations.
You can make, say,
a window fade transition as
fast or as slow as you want.
You can speed up or slow down
the genie effect as you need to.
And it also supports asynchronous
transitions so that you can just
call Transition Window with Options.
It'll return immediately,
and the transition will happen
sort of behind your back
without you having to block,
so you can continue processing.
Now of course,
if you're using asynchronous transitions,
you probably want to know when
the transition's finished.
So we have a pair of Carbon events
to help you out with that.
We have a kEventWindow
transition started event.
It's sent to the window right
when the transition starts,
so you can set up any
state you need to maintain.
And then a kEventWindow transition
completed Carbon event when
the transition is finished.
Now, performance is not all just
about super-duper fast code.
Super-duper fast code helps, of course,
but it's not the end-all, be-all.
Some of it has to do with
perceived performance.
How fast does your app seem?
And one way we facilitate
that on Panther is through
asynchronous window dragging.
So traditionally on Mac OS,
when you wanted to drag a window--sorry,
this is on Mac OS X--when
you want to drag a window,
you click on its title bar,
the Windows Server has to send the
click event to your application.
Your application catches that event,
and either you call drag window or
the toolbox calls drag window for you,
and then the user starts
moving the window around.
And there is a slight lag there, right?
There's a cross-process
message that has to be sent.
So if we can actually allow window
dragging at the Windows Server level,
that process is going to be--we're going
to eliminate the cross-process message,
and the drag is going to start
virtually instantaneously.
It's much,
much faster perceived performance.
The secondary benefit is
that if your app is busy,
if you've got the
spinning cursor of death,
or if you're doing some intense
computation and you can't
service events very often,
the user will still be
able to click your window,
even if your app is not
generally responsive.
Of course, the best part is that
it's real easy to turn on.
We've got a new window attribute,
kWindowAsyncDrag attribute.
You can specify that attribute
either in Create New Window or
Change Window Attributes
later if you need to.
But there's one very,
very important caveat.
Because the Windows Server is
handling your window dragging,
you are not going to receive a steady
stream of kEvent window bounds changing
events as the window is dragged around.
You will get them occasionally,
but they will be sort
of like a hiccup effect.
You'll get them every now and again,
sort of as the user pauses.
So if you were relying on kEvent
window bounds changing to do some
sort of custom window drag gridding,
you know,
you want it to snap to various locations
or snap toolbars together and whatnot,
it's not going to work real
well with async window dragging.
So you've got a couple options there.
The first is just don't
use async window dragging.
You don't have to use it for all
the windows in your application.
If your interface is better
served by that gridding,
you know, keep doing that gridding.
Don't turn on async for those windows.
That's fine.
Alternatively,
we do send out a kEvent window
drag completed Carbon event
whenever a window drag is finished.
So one thing you could do is install
a handler for that event instead
of the bounds changing events.
And then let the user drag the window
all around the screen wherever.
Don't do the sort of live snapping.
And then when the drag's finished,
you'll get the drag completed
event and you can snap the window
to the correct location then.
So you've got a couple options there.
The other real important thing to
realize about asynchronous window
dragging is that if you turn this on,
you don't want to call drag window when
you finally receive the mouse down.
Because you will receive that
mouse down in your application.
And if you turn on async dragging,
receive the mouse down,
and then call drag window yourself,
you're going to get a really weird
effect as the window sort of jumps
around between two different locations.
So make sure to take out your calls
to drag window and similar APIs.
So I've talked about
an awful lot of stuff,
and that's not even it.
I mean, we have a couple other sessions
for HIToolbox where we talk
about entirely other pieces of
functionality that we've added.
But that shouldn't stop you from going
and implementing some of this stuff now.
There's a lot of quick and
easy things you can do.
You can conditionalize some of your code
for Panther such that it uses the HITheme
APIs instead of the Appearance Manager.
You're going to get a lot of
performance boost from that.
You can use the replacement
for Event Avail and Still Down.
You can start adopting
the new Aqua widgets,
right?
Start using that search field.
Start using the segment view
when it's finally available.
But even more important than that
is if you haven't started looking
at the new technologies and our
underlying foundational technologies,
you've got to start looking at that now.
More and more of our stuff is only
going to work under this new model.
You need to start learning
about compositing.
Try turning on the standard window
handler in some of your windows.
You are going to run through some issues.
There is a little bit of a code
thrash that needs to happen,
but it's not a very big code thrash.
So go turn those things on.
Start iteratively making these
improvements to your application
so you'll be completely flexible
as we throw new technologies
out there for you to use.
Now this is something we actually did for
the new navigation services for Panther.
The old nav was
completely dialogue based.
It did all the event handling
itself except for a few edge cases.
Therefore, nav was a really big binary.
It did a lot of work.
So as part of the new UI,
we actually switched navigation services
over to using the standard handlers,
over to using compositing.
And sure,
it took us a little bit of time,
but the end result was great.
We gave much better performance.
We got to adopt all the new widgets.
We got to use the
segment view and whatnot.
We got to use data browser
and compositing mode.
But the best thing is that we got
rid of a lot of code out of nav.
The nav binary, which is more now in
Panther than it did in Jaguar,
is still 10% smaller
than it was in Jaguar.
So for your applications,
that's going to mean
quicker download times,
less paging that needs to
happen when your application
is loaded and things like that.
So you got to get out there.
Start adopting these new technologies
and move your applications
to the future of Mac OS X.
So now I would like to bring
back up Xavier to take us
through the roadmap and some Q&A.
Good job.
All right.
We have a couple of things that
are very important to understand,
and hopefully that will make sense
for you guys on what we've been
trying to achieve this year with
the sessions for Carbon developers.
Very important, the data exchange option
for Carbon application.
We have brand new services
for the PACE board.
A new type, which is the UTI,
the uniform type identifier that
we're going to be talking about.
If you're interested in using that,
go and see that, because you'll have
to use that in Panter.
If you need more
information about HIView,
if you have custom controls and
you'd like to take advantage
of core graphics and this new
compositing view model that we have,
please go to the session 425 Carbon,
where we'll talk really in detail
about HIView and how your application
can take advantage of this technology.
Two very important sessions this year,
we have something specific for optimizing
performance for Carbon applications.
We're going to be actually
taking you guys through a
bunch of steps from networking,
file I/O,
what you should do with Carbon events,
what type of compositing you
should use when on what windows.
We're going to talk about
things like APIs that maybe
you should start moving out of,
that we should not be using anymore.
A very, very good session.
We have session 307 that's
going to be specifically for
Carbon development and Xcode,
the new tools we released.
The tools team has made a major effort
to actually have the tools integrate
very well with what Carbon developers
are doing and with HIView,
of course.
You saw a little bit of that
through interface builder,
but Xcode has some pretty cool
built-in support for debugging
Carbon applications as well.
Can I add one thing?
Hey, David, what's your session number?
4:23?
There is one session that is not there,
which is session 4:03.
Very cool session.
A lot of people, primarily like you know,
are in my case,
which is you know we all have
applications for Mac OS 9
but are using Power Plant.
And we have all these different
technologies in Carbon to
use and we're wondering,
well, where should I start?
That session is going to be
specifically on how to build a
modern C/C++ application on Mac OS X.
So you can think of it kind
of as a refresher course,
if you need to kind of get reminded of
what the right way to do things are,
you know,
to use run application event loop instead
of wait next event and things like that.
You know,
it'll give you the right pointers
toward using the modern APIs.
It's what makes you know
a modern C++ application,
C or C++ application on Mac OS X.
What should you use?
We'll go through a Carbon event, HIV,
we have like a bunch of things for that.
I encourage you to
assist to that session.
I got him back.
Should you need any questions,
you can contact me at xavieratapple.com.
There is always my manager in
case I don't answer and I'm in
Tahiti or something like that.
And John Galenzi is also a really
good guy if you have Aqua questions.
John Galenzi is actually our user
experience technology evangelist.